I am attempting to classify all the different protocols used by whois servers
and define them here.  This document will also be implemented in code in various
places.  The whois_server_id program will use the information here to identify
which protocol a given sever uses.  The production server will use this information
to make queries to the server and interpet their results.

TODO: learn about the Domain Status field.  Does "inactive" mean someone can grab that
  domain, or what?


ws20:
  Examples: jobswhois.verisign-grs.com, whois.crsnic.net

  NOTE: Not all ws20 servers are the same!  For example, jobswhois.verisign-grs.com allows you
  to limit your search to one tld according to their help page, but whois.crsnic.net does NOT.

  Question mark query returns a nice help page where the
    second line is "Whois Server Version 2.0".

  Single domain query: "sum domain example.com".
  	Available:  Third paragraph first line is prefixed with "No match for domain"
    Taken:
      Third paragraph contains simple list of capitalized domain names.
      Your domain will appear in that list.

  Prefix queries:
	  Query: "sum domain pa example"

		No matches:
		  Third paragraph has line with prefix. "No match for partial domain"

    Some matches:
      Third paragraph has list of capitalized domain names that match.

    Too many matches (> 50):
		  Third paragraph starts with "Aborting search 50 records found ....."

	Identify what TLDs are in the registry:
	  Query: "sum domain - "
		Last paragraph first line says one of:
      "The Registry database contains ONLY .cc, .tv, and .jobs domains"
      "The Registry database contains ONLY .COM, .NET, .EDU domains and"

afilias:
  Example: whois.aero. whois.afilias.info
  Question mark query or unknown TLD: "Not a valid domain search pattern" one-liner

	Help query: "help"
    Returns useful help page which mentions "afilias" several times.

	This protocol supports possible-next-letter queries.

  Single domain query: "sum example.info"
    TLD must be supplied.
		Available: "NOT FOUND" one-liner 
    Taken: provides a line like "Domain Name:ABC.INFO"
 
  Prefix query: "sum example%.info"
    TLD must be supplied.
		No matches: "NOT FOUND" one-liner
		Some matches: A line like "Domain Name:ABC.INFO" for each match
		Too many matches (>= 50):  Silently truncates result length to 50.
      If we get 50 results, we really should assume that some were truncated.
		  

ootr:
  Examples: cwhois.cnnic.cn

	Query "?":
    Responds with 1-liner "Out of this registry..."

  Available domains:
    "no matching record" if domain does not exist.

  Taken domains:
    line starts with "Domain name: " (e.g. google.xn--fiqz9s | nc cwhois.cnnic.cn)
    "reserved domain" for sometimes (e.g. a.xn--fiqs8s | cwhois.cnnic.cn)
    "the domain you requested is in the reserved list" (e.g. china.xn--fiqs8s | cwhois.cnnic.cn)

		Sample output:  echo -e "google.xn--fiqz9s\r\n" | nc cwhois.cnnic.cn 43
		  Domain Name: google.中国
      Domain Status: clientDeleteProhibited
      Domain Status: clientTransferProhibited
      Domain Status: clientUpdateProhibited
      Domain Status: inactive
      Registrant ID: markidn-135742
      Registrant: Google Inc.
      Registrant Contact Email: dns-admin@google.com
      Registrar Name: MarkMonitor Inc.
      Create Date: 2012-10-29 00:00:01
      Expiration Date: 2015-10-29 00:00:00
      DNSSEC: unsigned
  
	Prefix queries: probably no


ndf:
  Example: whois.aeda.net.ae
	
  Question mark query returns one-liner "No Data Found".

  Search string must contain at least 5 characters before a wildcard (%).

  Main query:  Just send the domain name.  TLD is optional.
	  Available: one-liner "No Data Found"
	  Taken: There will be a line starting with "Domain Name:", and other details.

  Prefix query:
    Example: earth%
    
		No matches: one-liner "No Data Found"
		One match:  Result looks just like the normal "Taken" response (has details).
    Some matches: Just a list of lines that start with "Domain 

    Too many matches (> 10):
		  No special indication, except that the list only has 10 domain names.

  UHOH, I got blacklisted from whois.aeda.net.ae after exactly 20 queries:
    BLACKLISTED: You have exceeded the query limit for your network or IP address and have been blacklisted.

